1. Elevator Pitch:
Oral cavity cancers are highly treatable when caught early, but almost 70% of cases are diagnosed too late due to clinical uncertainty and a lack of accessible screening tools, leading to over 170,000 deaths annually. OralVision is an intraoral, deep-learning-powered diagnostic device designed to change this unfortunate reality. The device captures high resolution images of the oral cavity and analyzes them in real time using a pre-trained neural network that can identify malignant tissue patterns oblivious to the naked eye. By integrating noninvasive imaging with advanced artificial intelligence, our innovation is capable of providing physicians with highly accurate diagnostic insights, allowing for earlier clinical referrals and therapeutic intervention. Moreover, with its use of inexpensive, yet powerful components, OralVision has the potential to be mass produced and distributed at a much lower marginal cost than existing solutions, contributing to improved 5-year survival rates, especially in marginalized low-income communities.

2. Team:
Team OralVision was formed in response to rising rates of oral cavity and pharyngeal cancers in North Texas, which have disproportionately affected members of our community living underprivileged medical deserts like South Dallas with limited access to proper diagnostic technologies. We saw the hardships that these people had to go through firsthand from volunteer experiences, motivating us to pursue an engineering-based solution that could make a meaningful impact on public health systems in these areas. Alan brings nearly 2 years of experience in oncology research and business management, allowing him to effectively facilitate model pretraining and product commercialization. Zayan brings significant expertise in the development of deep-learning models using TensorFlow for previous projects, making him well suited to facilitate development of OralVision's ML model and user interface. Abdullah contributes over 3 years of experience in CAD, electrical engineering, and prototype design, positioning him to lead the design of OralVision's hardware.

3. Opportunity:
Over the past decade, oral cavity cancer rates have skyrocketed across the United States as a result of increased human papillomavirus (HPV) exposure and a lack of accessible diagnostic technologies. While oral cancer is largely treatable when caught early, nearly 70% of all cases are diagnosed in the later stages. The majority of these new oral cancer cases are clustered in low-income communities with heavily underfunded public health systems

4. Innovation:


5. Validation and Progress:


6. Market:
Customers: clinicians + clinical leadership

Target segments: oncology and dental clinics

Important: accurate results + cost effective



7. Competition:
OralVision's most significant competitors in the oral diagnostics market are the VELScope Vx and the ViziLite PRO Oral Lesion Screening System. These devices utilize blue light to excite fluorophore molecules in the mucous membrane, resulting in abnormal oral tissue emitting a distinct fluorescence. While these existing solutions have been successful in improving lesion visibility, they cannot accurately differentiate between benign and malignant growths and ultimately rely on the physician's naked eye to provide a specific diagnosis. Moreover, both the VELScope Vx and the ViziLite PRO can cost over $2,000 upfront, with necessary accessories bringing that price even higher. This exorbitant pricing alienates many clinics in underprivileged areas from accessing essential intraoral diagnostic technology, contributing to disproportionately high oral cavity cancer rates. While OralVision and its competitors all have the same goal of assisting physicians with oral cancer diagnosis, our innovation's novel software and cost-effective design make it revolutionary in the diagnostics market. Instead of simply illuminating abnormal tissue, OralVision takes multiple photos of a patient's oral cavity and feeds them into a comprehensive federated neural network that our company developed and trained. Our innovation has the capability to provide highly accurate clinical diagnoses and iteratively refine model parameters based on aggregated HIPAA-compliant patient data, giving us a significant edge over market competitors that haven't even considered integrating machine learning with intraoral diagnostics yet. In addition, OralVision utilizes cost-effective hardware, enabling our company to produce it at a relatively lower marginal cost and sell it at a highly competitive price that's more accessible to underserved communities. The only notable disadvantage that OralVision has in comparison with existing solutions is the fact that the device is quite bulky and not ergonomically optimized. However, we have plans to make the device frame sleeker to maximize patient comfort in future prototypes.

8. Go-to-Market:
OralVision's initial market strategy will prioritize outreach towards administration at local dental clinics and Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) to establish strategic pilot partnerships. Clinics that participate in this pilot program will receive our device at a discounted rate and provide insightful, HIPAA-compliant training data for OralVision's federated-learning-based diagnostic model, allowing us to attract a large preliminary customer base through penetrative pricing while also improving OralVision's software for future global commercialization. Most major medical diagnostic corporations employ market strategies like Hardware as a Service (HaaS), where participating clinics are required to pay an extortionate monthly fee in continue using a medical device. However, due to OralVision's cost-effective design, our company is able to practice an outright sales approach, providing clinics with a cheap, high quality diagnostic device free of additional fees. This competitive pricing strategy incentivizes clinics to switch over from HaaS-based competitors, effectively increasing our market share.

9. Business Model:
OralVision's most significant costs come from the purchase of its primary hardware components. The device relies on a 8 GB Raspberry Pi 5 SBC that houses our federated neural network for intraoral image analysis, costing $105 per unit. Our prototype also incorporates an industrial HMI touch display, which costs $81.95 per unit. With the addition of dozens of other miscellaneous electronic components, the total manufacturing cost for OralVision comes out to approximately $500 per unit, which is below the average production cost for prominent MedTech competitors. Our company plans to utilize FedEx's standard 2Day shipping program for domestic logistics, since our medical device is below the 150 pound weight floor for specialized shipping and doesn't incorporate any thermosensitive components that require a climate-controlled shipping environment. Distribution to local clinics and FQHCs under our pilot partnership program via FedEx 2Day will cost about $15.00 per unit. Once OralVision has penetrated the domestic market, our company plans for global commercialization, with international logistics being handled by CENCORA World Courier.
The 2 most significant costs associated with global distribution include import tariffs and 3PL fees, which can vary substantially based on the country and shipping volume. OralVision will generate the majority of its revenue through direct sale of our prototype to clinical partners at a highly competitive price. On average, large corporations in the medical device market have consistent profit margins of 20-30%, so OralVision will be priced at about $680 per unit to attain a similar margin, assuming that the approximate cost of goods sold (COGS) is $515. This price is over 3.5 times cheaper than existing market alternatives like the VELScope Vx and the ViziLite PRO Oral Lesion Screening System, incentivizing clinics, to adopt OralVision instead and ultimately increasing our gross revenue.

10. Fundraising:
OralVision will require approximately $28,000 in seed funding to ensure regulatory compliance, support preliminary manufacturing efforts, and facilitate distribution to pilot clinics. To start, we will need $6,517 to cover the application fee for FDA 510(k) premarket clearance, which is required for Class II medical devices like OralVision to be commercialized in the US. Once we've met federal regulations, our company will allocate $20,000 to capital investment in industrial-grade 3D printers and electronic components to kickstart mass production of our prototype. Finally, we plan to distribute our product in a timely manner to pilot partners through FedEx 2Day, which will cost about $1800. To acquire these funds, we plan to apply to entrepreneurship programs like the NSF SBIR/STTR grant and Google’s Startup Accelerator. These programs are equity free and provide access to expert mentorship and Cloud TPUs, allowing us to maximize our profits while also improving OralVision’s software and design.