---
layout: post
title: Business & Investment
description: Pilot partnerships, pricing strategy, and seed funding
image: assets/images/business.jpg
show-tile: true
hide_image: true
tile_order: 5
---

OralVision's initial market strategy will prioritize outreach towards administration at local dental clinics and Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) to establish strategic pilot partnerships. Clinics that participate in this pilot program will receive our device at a discounted rate and provide insightful, HIPAA-compliant training data for OralVision's federated-learning-based diagnostic model, allowing us to attract a large preliminary customer base through penetrative pricing while also improving OralVision's software for future global commercialization. Most major medical diagnostic corporations employ market strategies like Hardware as a Service (HaaS), where participating clinics are required to pay an extortionate monthly fee in continue using a medical device. However, due to OralVision's cost-effective design, our company is able to practice an outright sales approach, providing clinics with a cheap, high quality diagnostic device free of additional fees. This competitive pricing strategy incentivizes clinics to switch over from HaaS-based competitors, effectively increasing our market share.

OralVision's most significant costs come from the purchase of its primary hardware components. The device relies on a 8 GB Raspberry Pi 5 SBC that houses our federated neural network for intraoral image analysis, costing $105 per unit. Our prototype also incorporates an industrial HMI touch display, which costs $81.95 per unit. With the addition of dozens of other miscellaneous electronic components, the total manufacturing cost for OralVision comes out to approximately $500 per unit, which is below the average production cost for prominent MedTech competitors. Our company plans to utilize FedEx's standard 2Day shipping program for domestic logistics, since our medical device is below the 150 pound weight floor for specialized shipping and doesn't incorporate any thermosensitive components that require a climate-controlled shipping environment. Distribution to local clinics and FQHCs under our pilot partnership program via FedEx 2Day will cost about $15.00 per unit. Once OralVision has penetrated the domestic market, our company plans for global commercialization, with international logistics being handled by CENCORA World Courier.

The 2 most significant costs associated with global distribution include import tariffs and 3PL fees, which can vary substantially based on the country and shipping volume. OralVision will generate the majority of its revenue through direct sale of our prototype to clinical partners at a highly competitive price. On average, large corporations in the medical device market have consistent profit margins of 20-30%, so OralVision will be priced at about $680 per unit to attain a similar margin, assuming that the approximate cost of goods sold (COGS) is $515. This price is over 3.5 times cheaper than existing market alternatives like the VELScope Vx and the ViziLite PRO Oral Lesion Screening System, incentivizing clinics, to adopt OralVision instead and ultimately increasing our gross revenue.
OralVision will require approximately $28,000 in seed funding to ensure regulatory compliance, support preliminary manufacturing efforts, and facilitate distribution to pilot clinics. To start, we will need $6,517 to cover the application fee for FDA 510(k) premarket clearance, which is required for Class II medical devices like OralVision to be commercialized in the US. Once we've met federal regulations, our company will allocate $20,000 to capital investment in industrial-grade 3D printers and electronic components to kickstart mass production of our prototype. Finally, we plan to distribute our product in a timely manner to pilot partners through FedEx 2Day, which will cost about $1800. To acquire these funds, we plan to apply to entrepreneurship programs like the NSF SBIR/STTR grant and Google’s Startup Accelerator. These programs are equity free and provide access to expert mentorship and Cloud TPUs, allowing us to maximize our profits while also improving OralVision’s software and design.